Linux and SQL Week 3

	The command line
	Navigating and managing the file system
	Authenticating and Authorizing Users
	Resources
	
Security Analysts
	work with server logs
	navigate manage and analyze files remotely
	verify and configure users and group access
	Give authorization and set file permissions
	
Core Commands for navigation
	FHS
		organizes data
		hierarchal design
			Root - highest level
	PWD
		prints working directory
	ls
		display files and directories in directory
	cd
		change directory
	
	cat
		displays the content of a file
	head
		10 lines of the beginning of the file
	
	/home: Each user in the system gets their own home directory.

	/bin: This directory stands for “binary” and contains binary files and other executables.
		Executables are files that contain a series of commands a computer needs to follow to run programs and perform other functions.

	/etc: This directory stores the system’s configuration files.

	/tmp: This directory stores many temporary files. The /tmp directory is commonly used by attackers because anyone in the system can modify data in these files.

	/mnt: This directory stands for “mount” and stores media, such as USB drives and hard drives.

	Pro Tip: You can use the man hier command to learn more about the FHS and its standard directories.

	Note: When the path leads to a subdirectory below the user’s home directory, the user’s home directory can be represented as the tilde (~).
		For example, /home/analyst/logs can also be represented as ~/logs.
		
	Pro Tip: To learn what your username is, use the whoami command. The whoami command returns the username of the current user.
		For example, if your username is analyst, entering whoami returns analyst.
		
	Pro Tip: If you want to change the number of lines returned by head, you can specify the number of lines by including -n.
		For example, if you only want to display the first five lines of the updates.txt file, enter head -n 5 updates.txt.

	tail
		The tail command does the opposite of head. This command can be used to display just the end of a file, by default 10 lines.
		Entering tail updates.txt returns only the last 10 lines of the updates.txt file.

	Pro Tip: You can use tail to read the most recent information in a log file.

	less
		The less command returns the content of a file one page at a time.
		For example, entering less updates.txt changes the terminal window to display the contents of updates.txt one page at a time.
		This allows you to easily move forward and backward through the content. 
			Space bar: Move forward one page
			b: Move back one page
			Down arrow: Move forward one line
			Up arrow: Move back one line
			q: Quit and return to the previous terminal window
			
Manage File Content in Bash
	grep 
		searches a specified file and returns all lines in the file containing a specified string
	
	piping | 
		sends the std output of one command into another command for processing
	
	find
		searches for directories and files that meet specified criteria.
		There’s a wide range of criteria that can be specified with find. For example, you can search for files and directories that:
			Contain a specific string in the name,
			Are a certain file size, or
			Were last modified within a certain time frame.
		find /home/analyst/projects
			searches for everything starting at the projects directory. 
		-name and -iname
			One key criteria analysts might use with find is to find file or directory names that contain a specific string. 
			-name is case sensitive
			-iname is not case sensitive
				Note: An asterisk (*) is used as a wildcard to represent zero or more unknown characters.	
		-mtime
			find /home/analyst/projects -mtime -3 returns all files and directories in the projects directory that have been modified within the past three days.
			entering -mtime +1 indicates all files or directories last modified more than one day ago
			entering -mtime -1 indicates all files or directories last modified less than one day ago. 
				Note: The option -mmin can be used instead of -mtime if you want to base the search on minutes rather than days.
		
Create and Modify Directories and Files
	mkdir
		make dir
		
	rmdir
		remove dir
	
	touch
		creates a file
	
	rm
		removes a file
		
	mv
		moves file
	
	cp
		copies file
		
	When used with echo, the > and >> operators can be used to send the output of echo to a specified file rather than the screen.
	The difference between the two is that > overwrites your existing file, and >> adds your content to the end of the existing file instead of overwriting it.

Authenticate and Authorize Users
	permissions
		type of access granted for a file or directory
	
	Authorization
		concept of granting access to specific resources in a system
		need to know basis
		
	Permissions in Linux
		read
		write
		execute
	
	Owners
		User
		Group
		Other
		
	drwxrwxrwx
		directory
		1.users have rwx
		2.group has rwx
		3.other has rwx
	
	Options
		ls -l 
			displays permissions to files and directories
		ls -a
			displays hidden files
		
Change Permissions
	chmod
		changes permissions on files and directories
		chmod g+w, o-r access.txt
			group + write
			other - read
	
		chmod u=r,g=r,o=r login_sessions.txt
			This command overwrites existing permissions.
			
	chown
		command changes ownership of a file or directory
		To change the group owner of access.txt to security, enter sudo chown :security access.txt
		You must enter a colon (:) before security to designate it as a group name.
	
Adding and deleting users
	root user (superuser)
		no limitations
		create modify execute delete any file
		
	Problems
		security risks
		irriversible mistakes
		accountability
			no way to track who ran commands
	
	sudo
		temporarily grants root privileges to users
		super user do
		sudoers file to grant permission to users
		
	useradd
		adds user to the system -sudo only
		-g: Sets the user’s default group, also called their primary group
		-G: Adds the user to additional groups, also called supplemental or secondary groups
			sudo useradd -G finance,admin fgarcia adds fgarcia as a new user and adds them to the existing finance and admin groups
	
	userdel
		deletes user from the system
		userdel command doesn’t delete the files in the user’s home directory unless you use the -r option
		
		
	usermod
		modifies existing user accounts -g -G both work here as well
		To add a supplemental group for an existing user, you need the -G option.
		You also need a -a option, which appends the user to an existing group and is only used with the -G option.
			For example, entering sudo usermod -a -G marketing fgarcia
		-d: Changes the user’s home directory.
		-l: Changes the user’s login name.
		-L: Locks the account so the user can’t log in.
	
Getting Help Resources
	man
		displays information on commands and how they work
	
	whatis
		displays a description of commands in a single line
		
	apropos
		searches man page descriptions for a specified string
		-a only searches with the following arguments provided
		ex:
			apropos -a add group
				addgroup (8)         - add a user or group to the system
				adduser (8)          - add a user or group to the system
				adduser.conf (5)     - configuration file for adduser(8) and addgroup(8) .
				groupadd (8)         - create a new group
				
