Linux and SQL Week 1

The Wonderful World of Operating Systems
	
	OS
		interface between hardware and user
		
	Windows
		Windows is closed source and released in 1985
		
	macOS	
		macOS is partially open source released in 1984
		It has some open-source components, such as mac
		OS’s kernel. macOS also has some closed-source components. 
		
	Linux
		The first version of Linux was released in 1991. Open source. 
		
	ChromeOS
		2011. partially open source, derived from Chromium OS which is open source
		used in the education field
		
	Android and iOS
		Android and iOS are both mobile operating systems.
		Unlike the other operating systems mentioned, mobile operating systems are typically used in mobile devices, such as phones, tablets, and watches.
		Android was introduced for public use in 2008, and iOS was introduced in 2007.
		
	legacy operating system 
		an operating system that is outdated but still being used.
		Some organizations continue to use legacy operating systems because software they rely on is not compatible with newer operating systems
		
The operating system at work
	
	User <-> Application <-> OS <-> Hardware
	
	Booting the computer
		When you boot, or turn on, your computer, either a BIOS or UEFI microchip is activated.
	
	Basic Input/Output System (BIOS) 
		microchip that contains loading instructions for the computer and is prevalent in older systems
		
	Unified Extensible Firmware Interface (UEFI) 
		microchip that contains loading instructions for the computer and replaces BIOS on more modern systems.
		UEFI provides enhanced security features.
		one of the loading instructions is to verify the health of the computer’s hardware.
		The last instruction from the BIOS or UEFI activates the bootloader.
		The bootloader is a software program that boots the operating system.
		Once the operating system has finished booting, your computer is ready for use.
	
Resource allocation via the OS	
	OS manages resources for the computer
		can view in task manager
		
		
	Kernel-based Virtual Machine (KVM)
		open-source hypervisor that is supported by most major Linux distributions.
		It is built into the Linux kernel
		which means it can be used to create virtual machines on any machine running a Linux operating system without the need for additional software.
		
The User Interface
	program that allows user to control functions of the os
	
	GUI
		icons to manage different tasks
		start menu
		task bar
		desktop with icons and shortcuts
		
	CLI
		text based user interface that uses commands to interact with the computer
		more flexible and control than a gui
		