Sound the Alarm Detection and Response Week 2

Understand Network Traffic
	
	The importance of network traffic flows
			by identifying whats normal we can identify abnormalities as well
		
		Indicators of comporomise (IOC)
			observable evidence that suggests signs of a potential security incident
			
		Data Exfiltration
			unauthorized transmission of data from a system
				ex:
					large amounts of outbound data leaving a host
	
	
	Maintain awareness with network monitoring
		
		Flow analysis
			malicious actors can use protocols and ports that are not commonly associated to maintain communications between the compromised system and their own machine.
			
			These communications are what’s known as command and control (C2), 
			which are the techniques used by malicious actors to maintain communications with compromised systems.
			
		Packet payload information
			Network packets contain components related to the transmission of the packet.
			This includes details like source and destination IP address, and the packet payload information, which is the actual data that’s transmitted.
			Often, this data is encrypted and requires decryption for it to be readable.
			Organizations can monitor the payload information of packets to uncover unusual activity
				ex:
					sensitive data transmitting outside of the network, which could indicate a possible data exfiltration attack.
			
			
		Temporal Patterns
			Network packets contain information relating to time. This information is useful in understanding time patterns.
			anything considered off baseline should be investigated
			
			
		Protect your network
			network operations center (NOC)
				organizational unit that monitors the performance of a network and responds to any network disruption, such as a network outage.
				responsible for maintaining network performance, availability, and uptime
				
			Command and control (C2):
				The techniques used by malicious actors to maintain communications with compromised systems
				
	
	Data Efiltration Attacks
		attackers identify areas of interest
		exfiltrate data
			reduce data size
		
		Defensive Procedures:
			1. Prevent attacker access
			2. Monitor network activity
			3. Protect Assets
			4. Detect and stop the exfiltration
				ex: change firewall rules
			

Capture and View Network Traffic
	
	Packets and packet captures
		Components
			header
			Payload
			Footer
			
		P-cap
			packets intercepted
			
			
	Learn more about packet captures
		Note: Using network protocol analyzers to intercept and examine private network communications without permission is considered illegal in many places.
		
		Libpcap is a packet capture library designed to be used by Unix-like systems, like Linux and MacOS®.
			Tools like tcpdump use Libpcap as the default packet capture file format. 

		WinPcap is an open-source packet capture library designed for devices running Windows operating systems.
			It’s considered an older file format and isn’t predominantly used.

		Npcap is a library designed by the port scanning tool Nmap that is commonly used in Windows operating systems.

		PCAPng is a modern file format that can simultaneously capture packets and store data. 
			Its ability to do both explains the “ng,” which stands for “next generation.”
			
	
	Reexamine the fields of a packet header
		Application
		Transport
		Internet
			accepts packets
			reads packet header and best available route to send between hosts
			typical protocols: IPV4 and IPV6
			
		Network Access
		
		IPV4 Header
		
			Version:
				what kind of protocol
			IHL:
				header length plus any options
			TOS:
				Types of service
				different types of care : fragile
			Total Length
				
			Identification
			Flags
			Fragment Order
				specify if fragmentation has been used and how to reorder them when received
				
			TTL
				time to live
				how long header can live before dropped
				
			Protocol
				protocol used TCP=6
			
			Header Checksum
				any errors in the header
				
			Source Address
			
			Destination Address
			
			Options
				network troubleshooting
					if used header is lengthened
					
	
	Investigate Packet Details
		 IPV6
			Version:
				This field indicates the IP version. For an IPv6 header, IPv6 is used.

			Traffic Class: 
				This field is similar to the IPv4 Type of Service field.
				The Traffic Class field provides information about the packet's priority or class to help with packet delivery.

			Flow Label: 
				This field identifies the packets of a flow. A flow is the sequence of packets sent from a specific source. 

			Payload Length: 
				This field specifies the length of the data portion of the packet.

			Next Header: 
				This field indicates the type of header that follows the IPv6 header such as TCP.

			Hop Limit:
				This field is similar to the IPv4 Time to Live field.
				The Hop Limit limits how long a packet can travel in a network before being discarded.

			Source Address: 
				This field specifies the source address of the sender.

			Destination Address: 
				This field specifies the destination address of the receiver.
			
			
		Display filters
			Wireshark's display filters let you apply filters to packet capture files. 
			This is helpful when you are inspecting packet captures with large volumes of information.
			Display filters will help you find specific information that's most relevant to your investigation. 
			You can filter packets based on information such as protocols, IP addresses, ports, and virtually any other property found in a packet. 
			
			
		Contains operator
			The contains operator is used to filter packets that contain an exact match of a string of text.
			
			
		Matches operator
			The matches operator is used to filter packets based on the regular expression (regex) that's specified. 
			
			
		Filter for protocols
			dns
			http
			ftp
			ssh
			arp
			telnet
			icmp
			
			
		Filter for a MAC address
			You can also filter packets according to the Media Access Control (MAC) address. 
			eth.addr == 00:70:f4:23:18:c4
			
			
		Filter for ports
			udp.port == 53
			tcp.port == 25
			
			
		
	Packet Inspection
		Packet Captures with tcpdump
			sudo tcpdump [-i interface] [option(s)] [expression(s)]
			ex:
				sudo tcpdump -i any -v -c 1
		For example, if you specify -i any you’ll sniff traffic from all network interfaces on the system. 
		
			Note: Before you can begin capturing network traffic, you must identify which network interface you'll want to use to capture packets from. 
			You can use the -D flag to list the network interfaces available on a system.
		
		Options
			-w
				Using the -w flag, you can write or save the sniffed network packets to a packet capture file instead of just printing it out in the terminal.
				sudo tcpdump -i any -w packetcapture.pcap
			
			-r
				Using the -r flag, you can read a packet capture file by specifying the file name as a parameter. 
				sudo tcpdump -r packetcapture.pcap
				
			-v
				As you’ve learned, packets contain a lot of information. By default, tcpdump will not print out all of a packet's information. 
				The levels are -v, -vv, and -vvv. The level of verbosity increases with each added v. 
				The verbose option can be helpful if you’re looking for packet information like the details of a packet’s IP header fields. 
				sudo tcpdump -r packetcapture.pcap -v
				
			-c
				The -c option stands for count.
				sudo tcpdump -i any -c 3
			
			-n  
				By default, tcpdump will perform name resolution. This means that tcpdump automatically converts IP addresses to names.
				This can be problematic because tcpdump isn’t always accurate in name resolution. For example, tcpdump can capture traffic from port 80 and automatically translates port 80 to HTTP in the output.
					However, this is misleading because port 80 isn’t always going to be using HTTP; it could be using a different protocol.
					sudo tcpdump -r packetcapture.pcap -v -n
			
			You can also use boolean operators like and, or, or not to further filter network traffic for specific IP addresses, ports, and more.
				sudo tcpdump -r packetcapture.pcap -n 'ip and port 80'
				
			Pro tip:
				You can use single or double quotes to ensure that tcpdump executes all of the expressions.
				You can also use parentheses to group and prioritize different expressions.
				Grouping expressions is helpful for complex or lengthy commands.
					For example, the command ip and (port 80 or port 443) tells tcpdump to prioritize executing the filters enclosed in the parentheses before filtering for IPv4.
			
		
		Interpreting output
			Timestamp:
				The output begins with the timestamp, which starts with hours, minutes, seconds, and fractions of a second. 
				
			Source IP:
				The packet’s origin is provided by its source IP address.
				
			Source port:
				This port number is where the packet originated.
				
			Destination IP:
				The destination IP address is where the packet is being transmitted to.
				
			Destination port: 
				This port number is where the packet is being transmitted to.
				
			