Sound the Alarm Detection and Response Week 3

	Investigate and verify an incident
	Plans and processes behind incident respone
	Post-incident actions
	
	
Incident Detection and Verification
	
	The detection and analysis phase of the lifecycle
		
		detection refers to the prompt discovery of security events 
		
		analysis involves the investigation and validation of alerts
		
		Challenges
			impossible to detect everything
			High Volume of Alerts
			
			
	Cybersecurity incident detection methods
		
		Threat hunting
			is the proactive search for threats on a network.
				For example, fileless malware is difficult for detection tools to identify.
				It’s a form of malware that uses sophisticated evasion techniques such as hiding in memory instead of using files or applications
				, allowing it to bypass traditional methods of detection like signature analysi
			
		Threat intelligence
			evidence-based threat information that provides context about existing or emerging threats
			
			Threat intelligence can come from private or public sources like:

				Industry reports:
					These often include details about attacker's tactics, techniques, and procedures (TTP).

				Government advisories:
					Similar to industry reports, government advisories include details about attackers' TTP. 

				Threat data feeds: 
					Threat data feeds provide a stream of threat-related data that can be used to help protect against sophisticated attackers like advanced persistent threats (APTs).
					
			
			Cyber deception
				Cyber deception involves techniques that deliberately deceive malicious actors with the goal of increasing detection and improving defensive strategies.
				
				Honeypots
					 active cyber defense mechanism that uses deception technology. 
					 Honeypots are systems or resources that are created as decoys vulnerable to attacks with the purpose of attracting potential intruders.
					 For example, having a fake file labeled Client Credit Card Information - 2022 can be used to capture the activity of malicious actors by tricking them into accessing the file because it appears to be legitimate.
					 Once a malicious actor tries to access this file, security teams are alerted.
					 
			
	Indicators of Compromise
	
		Indicators of Compromise(IoCs)
			are observable evidence that suggests signs of a potential security incident. 
			IoCs help to identify the who and what of an attack after it's taken place
		
		Indicators of attack (IoA)
			are the series of observed events that indicate a real-time incident.
			IoAs focus on identifying the behavioral evidence of an attacker, including their methods and intentions.
			IoAs focus on finding the why and how of an ongoing or unknown attack
			
		Pyramid of Pain
			https://detect-respond.blogspot.com/2013/03/the-pyramid-of-pain.html
			the relationship between indicators of compromise and the level of difficulty that malicious actors experience when indicators of compromise are blocked by security teams
			Each type of indicator of compromise is separated into levels of difficulty.
			These levels represent the “pain” levels that an attacker faces when security teams block the activity associated with the indicator of compromise
			 
			Hash values:
				Hashes that correspond to known malicious files.
				These are often used to provide unique references to specific samples of malware or to files involved in an intrusion.

			IP addresses:
				An internet protocol address like 192.168.1.1

			Domain names:
				A web address such as www.google.com 

			Network artifacts:
				Observable evidence created by malicious actors on a network.
				For example, information found in network protocols such as User-Agent strings. 

			Host artifacts:
				Observable evidence created by malicious actors on a host.
				A host is any device that’s connected on a network.
				For example, the name of a file created by malware.

			Tools:
				Software that’s used by a malicious actor to achieve their goal.
				For example, attackers can use password cracking tools like John the Ripper to perform password attacks to gain access into an account.

			Tactics, techniques, and procedures (TTPs):
				This is the behavior of a malicious actor.
				Tactics refer to the high-level overview of the behavior.
				Techniques provide detailed descriptions of the behavior relating to the tactic.
				Procedures are highly detailed descriptions of the technique. TTPs are the hardest to detect. 
				
https://d3c33hcgiwev3.cloudfront.net/imageAssetProxy.v1/5wpDfG3dRQyt3j7I9Vem3Q_31d63be045bc492e9b94aaeeb809a2f1_b5ndsAVFpYfEQSnQvmCly3Ws1dMEo2js79jF_lmAHf6cke-2RsAJfd2JrQ4GoFZdLOIdxxGx-AyNc-cnn4dolkvJLj1dydB1g0JmArLZWeZy7VJLFagiJ0xcq1oz7oirJA4dN8qjz6CI87yrOt-QSvGE7J28YVbPtj59GiU35sLHgGU8RIqqEkRI-JAk5w?expiry=1689811200000&hmac=aXieJ_-KMvYA1sH_TRtIjdpM-ffsOh0tPsSShHED4Ds

	
	Analyze indicators of compromise with investigative tools
	
		The power of crowdsourcing
			the practice of gathering information using public input and collaboration.
			Threat intelligence platforms use crowdsourcing to collect information from the global cybersecurity community
			Without crowdsourcing, attackers can perform the same attacks against multiple organizations. 
		
			information-sharing organizations include Information Sharing and Analysis Centers (ISACs), which focus on collecting and sharing sector-specific threat intelligence to companies within specific industries like energy, healthcare, and others.
			
			Open-source intelligence (OSINT)
				is the collection and analysis of information from publicly available sources to generate usable intelligence
			

Create and Use Documentation
	
	The benefits of documentation
		Transparency
		Standardization
		Clarity
		
		
	Document Evidence with chain of custody
			The process of documenting evidence possession and control during an incident lifecycle
			tracking evidence
			location, hostname, mac address, ip address
			date, purpose of transfer
			
		Broken Chain of Custody
			inconsistencies in the collection and logging of evidence in the chain of custody
			
		Chain of custody establishes
			integrity
			reliability
			accuracy
			
			
	The value of cybersecurity playbooks
		Non automated
			step by step performed by an analyst
		Automated
			SOAR and SIEM Tools
		Semi Automated
			combines an analysts actions with automation
			
		
Response and Recovery

	The role of triage in incident response
		the prioritizing of incidets according to their importance or urgency
		
		Triage process:
			receive and assess an alert
			assign priority based on guidelines
			collect and analyze
			
		Questions to ask
			is there anything out of the ordinary
			are there multiple failed login attempts
			did the login happen outside of normal hours
			did the login happen outside of the network
			
		
	The Triage Process
	
		Assign priority 
			Functional impact
				security incidents that target information technology systems impact the service that htese systems provide to its users
			
			Infomation impact
				 Incidents can affect the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of an organization’s data and information.
				 In a data exfiltration attack, malicious actors can steal sensitive data.
			
			Recoverability
				 How an organization recovers from an incident depends on the size and scope of the incident and the amount of resources available. 
				 In some cases, recovery might not be possible, like when a malicious actor successfully steals proprietary data and shares it publicly.
		
		
	The containment, eradication, and recovery phase of the lifecycle
		
		Containment
			the act of limiting and preventing additional damage from an incident
				isolate infected system by disconnecting from the network
				
		Eradication
			the complete removal of incident elements from infected components
			
		Recovery
			the process of returning affected systems back to normal operation
			
			business continuity plan (BCP)
				is a document that outlines the procedures to sustain business operations during and after a significant disruption.
			Disaster recovery plans
				recover information systems in response to a major disaster.
				These disasters can range from hardware failure to the destruction of facilities from a natural disaster, like a flood. 
				
		Site resilience 
			Hot sites:
				A fully operational facility that is a duplicate of an organization's primary environment.
				Hot sites can be activated immediately when an organization's primary site experiences failure or disruption.

			Warm sites:
				A facility that contains a fully updated and configured version of the hot site. 
				Unlike hot sites, warm sites are not fully operational and available for immediate use but can quickly be made operational when a failure or disruption occurs.

			Cold sites:
				A backup facility equipped with some of the necessary infrastructure required to operate an organization's site. 
				When a disruption or failure occurs, cold sites might not be ready for immediate use and might need additional work to be operational.
		
		
Post-incident Actions
	
	The post incident activity phase of the lifecycle
		the process of reviewing an incident to identify areas for imporvement during incident handling
		
		Final report
			documentation that provides a comprehensive review of an incident
			
		Lessons learned meeting
			incident is reviewed, what actions, and how well they worked
			share ideas and insight on the incident
			Questions:
				what happened
				what time did it happen
				who discovered it
				how did it get contained
				what were the actions taken for recovery
				what could have been done differently
	
	Post Incident Review
		