Networks and Network Security 4

Security Hardening
Network Hardening
Network Hardening Practices
Cloud Hardening
		
	Security Analysts responsibilites
		Patch updates
		Backups
		
	Security Hardening
		process of strengthening a system to reduce its bulnerability and stack surface
		
	Attack Surface
		potential vulnerabilities a threat actor could exploit
		
	Security hardening can be conducted on
		hardware
		operating systems
		applications
		computer networks
		databases
		
	Ex:
		upgrading encryption standards
		requiring longer/ more frequent passwords
		disabling unused ports
		disabling or removing applications/services
		reducing access permissions
		
	Regular Pen Testing
		simulated attack to help identify vulnerabilities
	
OS Hardening
	intermediary between software applications and hardware
	
	updates, backups, list of devices and users

	Patch installation
		os update that addresses security vulnerabilities in a program or product
		as soon as update comes, old patch is vulnerable

	Baseline image
		documented set of specifications within a system that is used as a basis for future builds, releases, and updates
		
	Hardware and Software Disposal
		delete unused software
		
MFA
	requres you to verify identity in two or more ways	
		Something you know
		something you have
		something unique to you
		
Network Hardening
	
	port filtering
		firewall function that blocks or allows certain port numbers to limit unwanted communication
		old protocols should be disabled
	network access privilege
	encryption
		
	
	Tasks:
		firewall rules
		network log analysts
		patch updates
		server backups
		
	Network Log Analys
		examining network logs to identify events of interest
		
	SIEM tool
		collect and analyzed log data
		

	Simple brute force attack
		When attackers try to guess a user's login credentials
		
	Dictionary Attack
		attackers use a list of commonly used passwords and stolen credentials from previous breaches to access a system.
		These are called “dictionary” attacks because attackers originally used a list of words from the dictionary to guess the passwords
		
	Assessing vulnerabilities
		analysts can use virtual machines and sandboxes to test suspicious files
		check for vulnerabilities
		simulate a cybersecurity incident
		
	Prevention measures
		Salting and Hasing
			Hashing converts information into a unique value that can then be used to determine its integrity
			Salting adds random characters to hashed passwords
			
	CAPTCHA and reCAPTCHA:
		CAPTCHA stands for Completely Automated Public Turing test to tell Computers and Humans Apart
		
	Network Security Applications
		firewall
			stateful
			stateless
			ngfw
			
		an intrusion detection
			application that monitors system activity and alerts on possible intrusions.
			An IDS alerts administrators based on the signature of malicious traffic
			IDS systems often sniff data packets as they move across the network and analyze them for the characteristics of known attacks
			New and sophisticated attacks might not be caught.
			The other limitation is that the IDS doesn’t actually stop the incoming traffic
			The IDS is placed behind the firewall and before entering the LAN
			
		intrusion prevention device
			monitors system activity for intrusive activity and takes action to stop the activity. It offers even more protection than an IDS because it actively stops anomalies when they are detected
			unlike the IDS that simply reports the anomaly to a network administrator
			The IPS (like an IDS) sits behind the firewall in the network architecture
			However, one potential limitation is that it is inline: If it breaks, the connection between the private network and the internet breaks.
			Another limitation of IPS is the possibility of false positives, which can result in legitimate traffic getting dropped
			
		full packet capture devices
			These devices allow you to record and analyze all of the data that is transmitted over your network.
			They also aid in investigating alerts created by an IDS. 
			
		security information and event monitoring
			collects and analyzes log data to monitor critical activities in an organization
			SIEM tools additionally analyze network log data sourced from IDSs, IPSs, firewalls, VPNs, proxies, and DNS logs
			
		
Cloud Hardening
	stores data and resources in remote data centers that can be accessed by the internet
	storing baseline images to compare
	older applications kept separate
	internal kept separate
	
	Cloud security considerations
	
		Identity access management (IAM)
			a collection of processes and technologies that helps organizations manage digital identities in their environment.
			This service also authorizes how users can use different cloud resources.
			A common problem that organizations face when using the cloud is the loose configuration of cloud user roles
			
		Configuration
			The number of available cloud services adds complexity to the network. Each service must be carefully configured to meet security and compliance requirements.
			This presents a particular challenge when organizations perform an initial migration into the cloud.
			When this change occurs on their network, they must ensure that every process moved into the cloud has been configured correctly
			
		Attack Surface
			Every service or application on a network carries its own set of risks and vulnerabilities and increases an organization’s overall attack surface.
			An increased attack surface must be compensated for with increased security measures.
			
		Zero-day attacks
			Zero-day attacks are an important security consideration for organizations using cloud or traditional on-premise network solutions.
			A zero day attack is an exploit that was previously unknown.
			CSPs are more likely to know about a zero day attack occurring before a traditional IT organization does.
			CSPs have ways of patching hypervisors and migrating workloads to other virtual machines.
			These methods ensure the customers are not impacted by the attack.
			There are also several tools available for patching at the operating system level that organizations can use.
			
		Visibility and tracking 
			Network administrators have access to every data packet crossing the network with both on-premise and cloud networks.
			They can sniff and inspect data packets to learn about network performance or to check for possible threats and attacks.
		
		Shared responsibility model
			A commonly accepted cloud security principle is the shared responsibility model.
			The shared responsibility model states that the CSP must take responsibility for security involving the cloud infrastructure, including physical data centers, hypervisors, and host operating systems.
			The company using the cloud service is responsible for the assets and processes that they store or operate in the cloud.
			
		