Networks and Network Security 2

	Tools and Protocols
		identifying an attack by using the improper protocol
	
	Network Protocols
		a set of rules used by two or more devices on a network to describe the order of delivery and the structure of the data
	TCP
		internet protocol
		handshake then request
		First, the device sends a synchronize (SYN) request to a server. Then the server responds with a SYN/ACK packet to acknowledge receipt of the device's request. 
	
	Address Resolution Protocol (ARP)
		network protocol to determine the MAC address of the next router or device on the path
	
	HTTPS
		secure method of communication between clients and website servers
	
	DNS
		translates domain names to their ip addresses
	
	Security Protocols
		HTTPS
			encrypts data using SSL/TLS
		a nefarious actor could use the Domain Name System (DNS) protocol to divert traffic from a legitimate website to a malicious website containing malware.
	
	Communication protocols
		Transmission Control Protocol (TCP)
			Then the server responds with a SYN/ACK packet to acknowledge receipt of the device's request.
			Once the server receives the final ACK packet from the device, a TCP connection is established. 
	
	Management Protocols
		Simple Network Management Protocol (SNMP)
			SNMP can reset a password on a network device or change its baseline configuration.
			It can also send requests to network devices for a report on how much of the network’s bandwidth is being used up.
		Internet Control Message Protocol (ICMP)
			used by devices to tell each other about data transmission errors across the network.
			ICMP is used by a receiving device to send a report to the sending device about the data transmission.
			ICMP is commonly used as a quick way to troubleshoot network connectivity and latency by issuing the “ping” command on a Linux operating system.
			In the TCP/IP model, ICMP occurs at the internet layer.
	
	Security Protocols
		HTTPS
		Secure FIle Transfer Protocol (SFTP)
			is a secure protocol used to transfer files from one device to another over a network. SFTP uses secure shell (SSH), typically through TCP port 22.
			
	Network Address Translation (NAT)
		the router can replace a private source IP address with its public IP address and perform the reverse operation for responses.
		 NAT is a part of layer 2 (internet layer) and layer 3 (transport layer) of the TCP/IP model.
		 
	Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol (DHCP)
			 It assigns a unique IP address and provides the addresses of the appropriate DNS server and default gateway for each device.
			 DHCP servers operate on UDP port 67 while DHCP clients operate on UDP port 68.
	
	Address Resolution Protocol
		an internet layer protocol in the TCP/IP model used to translate the IP addresses that are found in data packets into the MAC address of the hardware device. 
		
	Telnet 
		Telnet is an application layer protocol that allows a device to communicate with another device or server.
		Not secure
		port 23
		
	Secure shell
		Secure shell protocol (SSH) is used to create a secure connection with a remote system. 22
		
	Post office protocol
		application layer (layer 4 of the TCP/IP model) protocol used to manage and retrieve email from a mail server. 
		
	Internet Message Access Protocol (IMAP)
		It downloads the headers of emails, but not the content. 
		IMAP uses TCP port 143 for unencrypted email and TCP port 993 over the TLS protocol.
		IMAP is slower than POP3.
		993
	
	Simple Mail Transfer Protocol
		(SMTP) is used to transmit and route email from the sender to the recipient’s address. 
		port 25 - unencrypted emails
		587 for TLS encrypted
		
	TLS 
		a cryptographic protocol that provides end-to-end security of data sent between applications over the Internet.
		
	IEEE 802.11 (WIFI)
		standards for wireless communication
		
	Wifi Protected Access (WPA)
		wireless security protocol for wireless connections
		Wi-Fi refers to a set of standards that define communication for wireless LANs.
		Wi-Fi is a marketing term commissioned by the Wireless Ethernet Compatibility Alliance (WECA).
		WECA has since renamed their organization Wi-Fi Alliance
	
	Wired Equivalent Privacy
		(WEP) is a wireless security protocol designed to provide users with the same level of privacy on wireless network connections as they have on wired network connections.
		old 1999
	
	Wi-Fi Protected Access
		(WPA) was developed in 2003 to improve upon WEP
		Addressed Flaws in WEP
			Temporal Key Integrity Protocol(TKIP)
			Longer security keys
			WPA also includes a message integrity check that includes a message authentication tag with each transmission.
		Malicious actors can use a key reinstallation attack (or KRACK attack) to decrypt transmissions using WPA.
	
	WPA2
		improves upon WPA by using the Advanced Encryption Standard (AES).
		WPA2 uses the Counter Mode Cipher Block Chain Message Authentication Code Protocol (CCMP)
		which provides encapsulation and ensures message authentication and integrity.
			Personal
				WPA2 personal mode is best suited for home networks
				The global passphrase for WPA2 personal version needs to be applied to each individual computer and access point in a network.
	
	WPA3
		WPA3 is a secure Wi-Fi protocol and is growing in usage as more WPA3 compatible devices are released.
		WPA3 addresses the authentication handshake vulnerability to KRACK attacks, which is present in WPA2. 
		WPA3 uses Simultaneous Authentication of Equals (SAE), a password-authenticated, cipher-key-sharing agreement.
			This prevents attackers from downloading data from wireless network connections to their systems to attempt to decode it.
		WPA3 has increased encryption to make passwords more secure  by using 128-bit encryption, with WPA3-Enterprise mode offering optional 192-bit encryption.
		
		
	Firewalls and Network Security Measures
		Firewall
			monitors traffic to and from
		Port Filtering
			only allowing certain ports
		Hardware Firewall
			most basic
			inspects each data packet
		Software Firewall
			analyze all traffic recieved by computer or server
			adds processing burden
		Cloud Firewall
			FAAS
			software firewall hosted by cloud
		Stateful
			keeps track of info pasing through and acts on it
		Stateless
			predifined rules,  no reacting to data packets or storing them
			less secure
		NGFW (next gen firewall)
			in depth
			deep packet inspection
			intrusion protection
			threat intelligence
		
	(VPN) Virtual Private Network
		changes your public ip and hides virtual location
		keep data private
		encrypts data
		Encapsulation
			wrapping sensitive data in other data packets
			unreadable in transit
		
	Security Zones
		segment of a network that protects the internal network from the outside
		network segments
			divides network into segments
		Subnets
			privacy for each network
			example:
				faculty and student
			Uncontrolled Zone
				outside 
			Controlled Zone
				protects internal from outer
				DMZ
					web servers
					proxy servers
					dns servers
					email
					file
					network perimiter to the internal network
				Internal Network
				Restricted Zone inside internal network
					accessible to employees with certain permissions
				architecutre
					internet firewall dmz firewall internal network firewall restricted zone
					restricitng ips and ports
				
	Subnetting and CIDR notation
		Subnetting
			the subdivision of a network into logical groups called subnets.
		Classless Inter-Domain Routing notation for subnetting (CIDR)
			method of assigning subnet masks to IP addresses to create a subnet
			Class A to E
			expandd the number of available IPv4 addresses
			CIDR IP addresses are formatted like IPv4 addresses, but they include a slash (“/’”) followed by a number at the end of the address
				called the IP network prefix
			
	Proxy Servers
		securing internal networks
		a server that fulfills the request of a client by forwarding them on to other servers
		sits between the internet and the rest of the network
		block unsafe websites
		temporary memory to store data requested from external servers
		limiting contact with internal servers
	Forward Proxy Server
		regulates and restricts a persons access to the internet
		goal is to hide a users ip and approve outgoing requests
	Reverse Proxy Server
		restricts internets acces to an internal server
	
	Virtual Networks and Privacy
		