Networks and Network Security

	network is a group of connected devices
	LAN and WAN
	LAN spans a small area house, office
	WAN is wide area city, state, country
	
network tools
hub
			a network device broadcasts info to every device on a network
Switch
			controls the flow of traffic between specific devices on a network by sending and receiving data between them
			only passes data to intended destination
			It maintains a MAC address table that matches MAC addresses of devices on the network to port numbers on the switch
			and forwards incoming data packets according to the destination MAC address.
Router
			connects multiple networks together

Modem
			a device that connects your router to the internet
		Router -> Modem ->Modem -> Router

virtualization tools
		pieces of software that perform network operations
	
Servers
		The devices that connect to a server are called clients
	
Wireless access point
	A wireless access point sends and receives digital signals over radio waves creating a wireless network.
	Devices with wireless adapters connect to the access point using Wi-Fi. 
	
Cloud Computing
	practice of using remote servers, applications, and network services that are hosted on the internet instead of on local physical devices

Cloud network
	collection of servers or computers that stores resources and data in remote data centers that can be accessed via the internet

Cloud offers
	on demand storage
	processing power
	analytics

Software as a service (SaaS)
 refers to software suites operated by the CSP that a company can use remotely without hosting the software. 

Infrastructure as a service (Iaas)
 refers to the use of virtual computer components offered by the CSP.
 These include virtual containers and storage that are configured remotely through the CSP’s API or web console.
 Cloud-compute and storage services can be used to operate existing applications and other technology workloads without significant modifications.
 Existing applications can be modified to take advantage of the availability, performance, and security features that are unique to cloud provider services.

Platform as a service (PaaS)
 refers to tools that application developers can use to design custom applications for their company.
 Custom applications are designed and accessed in the cloud and used for a company’s specific business needs.

Software-defined networks
 made up of virtual network devices and services.
 Just like CSPs provide virtual computers, many SDNs also provide virtual switches, routers, firewalls, and more.
 Most modern network hardware devices also support network virtualization and software-defined networking.
 This means that physical switches and routers use software to perform packet routing.
 In the case of cloud networking, the SDN tools are hosted on servers located at the CSP’s data center.
 
Data Packet
	a basic unit of information that travels from one device to another within a network
	
Bandwidth
	the amount of data a device receives every second

Speed
	the rate at which data packets are recieved or downloaded

Packet sniffing
	capturing and analyzing data packets

The TCP/IP Model
	transmission control protocal and internet protocol
	TCP
		an internet communication protocol to connect two datas on a network
	IP 
		a set of standards used for routing and addressing data packets as they travel through a network

Port
	a software-based location that organizes the sending and receiving of data between devices on a network

Port Numbers
	25 - email
	443 - secure internet communication
	20 - large file transfers
	
TCP/IP model
	1. network access layer
		ethernet, wlan
	2. internet layer
		IP
	3. transport layer
		TCP UDP
	4. application layer
		HTTP TLS DNS

Network protocols are a language that systems use to communicate with each other.
In order for two network systems to successfully communicate with each other, they need to use the same protocol.

Internet Control Message Protocol (ICMP).
 The ICMP shares error information and status updates of data packets.
 This is useful for detecting and troubleshooting network errors.
 The ICMP reports information about packets that were dropped or that disappeared in transit, issues with network connectivity, and packets redirected to other routers.
 
User Datagram Protocol (UDP)
	 Data sent over UDP is not tracked as extensively as data sent using TCP.
	 Because UDP does not establish network connections, it is used mostly for performance sensitive applications that operate in real time, such as video streaming.
TCP
	ensures reliable connection TCP contains the port number of the intended destination service in the header

OSI Model
	Physical
		physical hardware involved in network transmission
	Data Link
		The data link layer organizes sending and receiving data packets within a single network.
		The data link layer is home to switches on the local network and network interface cards on local devices.
		Protocols like network control protocol (NCP), high-level data link control (HDLC), and synchronous data link control protocol (SDLC) are used at the data link layer.
	Network
		The network layer oversees receiving the frames from the data link layer (layer 2) and delivers them to the intended destination. 
		This layer determines how data is sent to the receiving device. It's responsible for packet forwarding, routing, and addressing.
	Transport
		This layer also handles the speed of data transfer, flow of the transfer, and breaking data down into smaller segments to make them easier to transport.
	Session
		authentication, reconnection, and setting checkpoints during a data transfer.
		If a session is interrupted, checkpoints ensure that the transmission picks up at the last session checkpoint when the connection resumes.
	Presentation
		Functions at the presentation layer involve data translation and encryption for the network.
		Some formatting functions that occur at layer 6 include encryption, compression, and confirmation that the character code set can be interpreted on the receiving system.
		One example of encryption that takes place at this layer is SSL
	Application
		This layer includes all of the networking protocols that software applications use to connect a user to the internet
		
IP Address
	unique string of characters that identifies a device
	ipv4
	ipv6
		IPv6 header introduces different fields not included in IPv4 headers, such as the Flow Label and Traffic Class
	Mac Address - physical address
		switch routes data to the right address using this
	All IP addresses on a network share the same public facing ip address
	private ips are only seen by eachother on the same internal network

Operations at the network layer
	All data packets include an IP address; this is referred to as an IP packet or datagram
		It also includes information such as the source IP address, the size of the packet, and which protocol will be used for the data portion of the packet. 
		
The IP header ranges form 20 to 60 bytes
	Pakcets can very in size but the max size is 65,536 bytes
	the header contains 13 fields
		version
			what protocol the pakt is using
			
		IP header Length (HLEN)
			the value indicates where the packet header ends and the data segment begins
			
		Type of Service (TOS)
			routers prioritize packets for delivery to maintain quality of service on the network
			
		Total Length
			this field communicates the total length of the entire IP packet
			
		Identification
			larger packets are divided or gramented into smaller ip packets.
			the identification field provies a unique identifier for all graments so they can be reassembled
		
		Flags
			this field provides the routing device with more info about whether the original packet has been gramented and if there are more in transit
		
		Framentation Offset
			the fragment offset field tells routing devices where in the original packet the fragment belongs
		
		Time to Live (TTL)
			prevents data packets from being forwarded by routers indefinitely
			contains a counter that is set by the source
			decrements as passing through each router on its path, once it reaches zero it will return an ICMP Time Exceeded error message
			
		Protocol
			the protocol field tells the receiving device which protocol will be used for the data portion of the packet
			
		Header Checksum
			the header checksum field contains a checksum that can be used to detect corruption of IP header in transit
			
		Source IP address
			the address of sending device
		
		Destination IP Address
			the destination IP address
			
		Options
			the options field allows for security options to be applied to the packet if the HLEN value is greater than five
			
			
	A packet footer is a set of information added to the end of a packet.
	This information includes error-checking data and the timestamp.
	The footer also contains other control information, such as the sequence number and acknowledgments.
	