Google Security Week 3

Security Frameworks
	Goals
		setting goals
	Guidelines
		creating guidelines of reaching those goals
	Processes
		creating effective processes
	Results
		monitoring and communicating results
		
Security Controls
	tools to help reach security goals
	
Well known frameworks and Processes
	CIA Triad
		Confidentiality
		Integrity
			data is correct, authentic, and reliable
		Availability
			Data is accessible to those who are authorized to access it
	NIST Cybersecurity Framework
		standards, guidelines, processes
		baseline to protect from security risks
		
	NIST RMF
		Prepare	
			Essential activities to prepare the organization to manage security and privacy risks 
		Categorize	
			Categorize the system and information processed, stored, and transmitted based on an impact analysis
		Select	
			Select the set of NIST SP 800-53 controls to protect the system based on risk assessment(s)
		Implement	
			Implement the controls and document how controls are deployed
		Assess	
			Assess to determine if the controls are in place, operating as intended, and producing the desired results
		Authorize	
			Senior official makes a risk-based decision to authorize the system (to operate)
		Monitor	
			Continuously monitor control implementation and risks to the system
			
	The Federal Energy Regulatory Commission - North American Electric Reliability Corporation (FERC-NERC)
		FERC-NERC is a regulation that applies to organizations that work with electricity or that are involved with the U.S. and North American power grid.
		
	The Federal Risk and Authorization Management Program (FedRAMP®)
		FedRAMP is a U.S. federal government program that standardizes security assessment, authorization, monitoring, and handling of cloud services and product offerings. 
		
	Center for Internet Security (CIS®)
		CIS is a nonprofit with multiple areas of emphasis. It provides a set of controls that can be used to safeguard systems and networks against attacks.
		
	General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR)
		GDPR is a European Union (E.U.) general data regulation that protects the processing of E.U. residents’ data and their right to privacy in and out of E.U. territory.
		
	Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard (PCI DSS)
		PCI DSS is an international security standard meant to ensure that organizations storing, accepting, processing, and transmitting credit card information do so in a secure environment. 
		
	The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA)
		HIPAA is a U.S. federal law established in 1996 to protect patients' health information. This law prohibits patient information from being shared without their consent. It is governed by three rules: 
			Privacy
			Security 
			Breach notification 
	
	International Organization for Standardization (ISO) 
		ISO was created to establish international standards related to technology, manufacturing, and management across borders.
		
	System and Organizations Controls (SOC type 1, SOC type 2)
		The American Institute of Certified Public Accountants® (AICPA) auditing standards board developed this standard. The SOC1 and SOC2 are a series of reports that focus on an organization's user access policies at different organizational levels such as: 
			Associate
			Supervisor
			Manager
			Executive
			Vendor 
			Others 
			
		Security Ethics
			guidelines for making appropriate decisions
		
		Confidentiality
			keeping information secure and confidential
		Privacy Protections
			safeguarding personal info from unauthorized use
		Laws
			rules recognized by a community and enforced by a gov entity
	
	