Assets, Threats and Vulnerabilites Week 1
	
	Assets, Threats and Vulnerabilites
	
	Asset inventories
	
	Challenges in a rapidly changing digital world
	
	Policies, Standard, and Procedures
	
	NIST Cybersecurity Framework
	
The what, why, and how of asset security
	Risk
		anything that can impact the configdntiality, integrity, or availability of an asset
	
	Security risk planning
		assets
			item percieved as having value to a company
			
		threats
			any circumstance or event that could negatively impact assets
			
		vulnerabilites
			a weakness that can be exploited by a threat
			
	Likelihood x Impact = Risk
		In general, we calculate risk in this field to help:
			Prevent costly and disruptive events
			Identify improvements that can be made to systems and processes
			Determine which risks can be tolerated
			Prioritize the critical assets that require attention
		
	Risk factors
		Threats
		Vulnerabilities
		
	Categories of threat
		intentional
			hacker gains access to sensitive info
		unintentional
			employee holds door open
		
Security starts with asset classification
	Asset management
		tracking assets and the risks that affect them
	
	Asset inventory
		catalog of assets that need to be protected
		
	Asset Classification
		the practice of labeling assets based on sensitivity and importance to an organization
	
	Levels of asset classification
		Public
		
		Internal
			inside organization
			
		Confidential
			people working on the project
			
		Restricted
			highly classified - need to know basis
			
Common Classification Requirements
	sensitivity and importance of an asset typically requires knowing the following:
		What you have
		Where it is
		Who owns it, and
		How important it is
		
Digital and Physical Assets

	Assets in a digital world
		Data
			information translated, processed, or stored by a computer
	
	States of data
		in use
			actively using 
		in transit
			data traveling from one point to another
		in rest
			data not currently be accessed
			
	Information Security (infosec)
		the practice of keeping data in all states away from unauthorized users
		
	The emergence of cloud security
		Soaring into the cloud
			The availability of cloud technologies has drastically changed how businesses operate online.
			These new tools allow companies to scale and adapt quickly while also lowering their costs.
			Despite these benefits, the shift to cloud-based services has also introduced a range of new cybersecurity challenges that put assets at risk.
	
	Cloud-based services
		Software as a service (SaaS)
			SaaS refers to front-end applications that users access via a web browser.
			The service providers host, manage, and maintain all of the back-end systems for those applications.
			ex:
				gmail, slack, zoom
		
		Platform as a service (PaaS)
			PaaS refers to back-end application development tools that clients can access online.
			Developers use these resources to write code and build, manage, and deploy their own apps.
			Meanwhile, the cloud service providers host and maintain the back-end hardware and software that the apps use to operate. 
			ex:
				Google App Engine, VMware Cloud Foundry
				
		Infrastructure as a service (IaaS)
			IaaS customers are given remote access to a range of back-end systems that are hosted by the cloud service provider.
			This includes data processing servers, storage, networking resources, and more.
			ex:
				GCP
				Azure
				
		 Clients are commonly responsible for securing anything that is directly within their control:
			Identity and access management
			Resource configuration
			Data handling
			
		Cloud security challenges
			Misconfiguration 
				is one of the biggest concerns. Customers of cloud-based services are responsible for configuring their own security environment.
				Oftentimes, they use out-of-the-box configurations that fail to address their specific security objectives.
			
			Cloud-native breaches
				are more likely to occur due to misconfigured services.

			Monitoring access might be difficult
				depending on the client and level of service.

			Meeting regulatory standards
				is also a concern, particularly in industries that are required by law to follow specific requirements such as HIPAA, PCI DSS, and GDPR.
				
Risk and Asset Security
	Types of Risk Categories
		Damage
		Disclosure
		Loss of Information
		
	Elements of a security Plan
		Policies
			set of rules that reduces risk and protects information
			AUP secure ways to access corporate systems
			
		Standards
			references that inform how to set policies
		
		Procedures
			Step by step instructions to perform specific security tasks
			
	The NIST Cybersecurity Framework
		Compliance
			the process of adhering to internal standards and external regulations
		
		Regulations 
			rules set by a government or other authority to control the way something is done
		
	NIST (CSF)		
		A voluntaty framework that consists of standards, guidelines, and best practices to manage cybersecurity risk
		Core
			The CSF core is a set of desired cybersecurity outcomes that help organizations customize their security plan.
				identify
				protect
				detect
				respond
				recover
			
		Tiers
		The CSF tiers are a way of measuring the sophistication of an organization's cybersecurity program.
		1-4
			1 - Passive
					bare minimum
			
			4 - Exemplary Security
			
		Profiles
			The CSF profiles are pre-made templates of the NIST CSF that are developed by a team of industry experts. 
			CSF profiles are tailored to address the specific risks of an organization or industry.
				They are used to help organizations develop a baseline for their cybersecurity plans,
				or as a way of comparing their current cybersecurity posture to a specific industry standard.
		
		Implementing the CSF
			Create a current profile
				of the security operations and outline the specific needs of your business.
				
			Perform a risk assessment
				to identify which of your current operations are meeting business and regulatory standards.
				
			Analyze and prioritize
				existing gaps in security operations that place the businesses assets at risk.
				
			Implement a plan of action
				to achieve your organization’s goals and objectives.
			
		