Assets, Threats and Vulnerabilites Week 2

Safeguard Information

	Security Controls
		safeguards designed to reduce specific security risks
		
		Typec of security controls
			technical
				encryption
				authentication
				
			operational
				awareness
				incident response
				
			managerial
				policies
				standards
				procedures
		
		Information privacy
			the protection of unauthorized access and distribution of data
			
		Security should be designed with the principle of least privilege
		
		Data owner
			the person that decides who can access, edit, use, or destroy their information
	
		Data custodian
			anyone or anything thats responsible for the safe handling, transport, and storage of information
	
		
	
	Principle of Least Privilege
		security concept in which a user is only granted the minimum level of access and authorization required to complete a task or function.
		
		Limiting access reduces risk
		
			Implementing the principle of least privilege can greatly reduce the risk of costly incidents like data breaches by:
				Limiting access to sensitive information
				Reducing the chances of accidental data modification, tampering, or loss
				Supporting system monitoring and administration

		Determining access and authorization
		
			to implement least privilege access and authorization must be determined first:
			
				who is the user?
				How much access do they need to a specific resource?
				
			These are the most common types of user accounts:
			
				Guest accounts 
					are provided to external users who need to access an internal network, like customers, clients, contractors, or business partners.
					
				User accounts 
					are assigned to staff based on their job duties.
					
				Service accounts 
					are granted to applications or software that needs to interact with other software on the network.
					
				Privileged accounts 
					have elevated permissions or administrative access.
					
		Auditing account privileges
		
			There are three common approaches to auditing user accounts:
			
				Usage audits
					the security team will review which resources each account is accessing and what the user is doing with the resource
					
				Privilege audits
					Users tend to accumulate more access privileges than they need over time, an issue known as privilege creep.
					
				Account change audits
					Account directory services keep records and logs associated with each user.
					Changes to an account are usually saved and can be used to audit the directory for suspicious activity, like multiple attempts to change an account password.
					Performing account change audits helps to ensure that all account changes are made by authorized users.
			
	The data lifecycle
		Collect
		Store
		Use
		Archive
		Destroy
		
		Data governance
			Data owner:
				the person that decides who can access, edit, use, or destroy their information.

			Data custodian: 
				anyone or anything that's responsible for the safe handling, transport, and storage of information.

			Data steward: 
				the person or group that maintains and implements data governance policies set by an organization.
					
		Legally protected information

			PII is any information used to infer an individual's identity. 
			
			PHI stands for protected health information.
		
			SPII is a specific type of PII that falls under stricter handling guidelines.

	Information Privacy Regulations and Compliance
	
		Information security vs. information privacy
			Information privacy
				refers to the protection of unauthorized access and distribution of data.

			Information security (InfoSec)
				refers to the practice of keeping data in all states away from unauthorized users.
		
		Notable privacy regulations
			
			General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR)
				set of rules and regulations developed by the European Union (EU) that puts data owners in total control of their personal information.
				Under GDPR, types of personal information include a person's name, address, phone number, financial information, and medical information.
				
			Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard (PCI DSS)
				PCI DSS is a set of security standards formed by major organizations in the financial industry.
				This regulation aims to secure credit and debit card transactions against data theft and fraud.
				
			Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA)
				HIPAA is a U.S. law that requires the protection of sensitive patient health information.
				HIPAA prohibits the disclosure of a person's medical information without their knowledge and consent.
		
		Security assessments and audits
			A security audit is a review of an organization's security controls, policies, and procedures against a set of expectations.
			
			A security assessment is a check to determine how resilient current security implementations are against threats.

		
Encryption methods
	
	Fundamentals of Cryptography
		Cryptography
			the process of transforming informaiton into a form tha tunintended readers can't understand
		
		Algorithm
			set of rules to solve a problem
			
		Cipher
			algorithm that encrypts information
			
		Cryptographic key
			mechanism to decrypt cryptographic messages
			
		Brute force attack
			trial and error process of decrypting private information
	
	Public Key infrastructure
		an encryption framework that secures the exchange of information online
	
		Public Key Infrastructure Process
			1.) Exchange of encrypted information
				
					asymetric encryption
						using a public and private key
					
					symmetric encryption
						single secret key
			
			2.) Establish trust using a system of digital certificates
					
					Digital Certificate
						a file that verifies the identity of a public key holder
						
	
	
	Symmetric and asymmetric encryption
	
		Symmetric algorithms
			Triple DES (3DES) 
				block cipher because of the way it converts plaintext into ciphertext in “blocks.” 
				Triple DES generates keys that are 192 bits
				many organizations are moving away from using Triple DES due to limitations on the amount of data that can be encrypted
			
			Advanced Encryption Standard
				(AES) is one of the most secure symmetric algorithms today
				AES generates keys that are 128, 192, or 256 bits.
				Cryptographic keys of this size are considered to be safe from brute force attacks.
				
				openssl aes-256-cbc -pbkdf2 -a -d -in Q1.encrypted -out Q1.recovered -k ettubrute
				
		Asymmetric algorithms
			Rivest Shamir Adleman (RSA)
				RSA is one of the first asymmetric encryption algorithms that produces a public and private key pair.
				Asymmetric algorithms like RSA produce even longer key lengths
				RSA key sizes are 1,024, 2,048, or 4,096 bits. RSA is mainly used to protect highly sensitive data.
			
			Digital Signature Algorithm (DSA) 
				DSA also generates key lengths of 2,048 bits.
				introduced by NIST
				This algorithm is widely used today as a complement to RSA in public key infrastructure.
				
		Generating keys
			One way this is done is using OpenSSL, which is an open-source command line tool that can be used to generate public and private keys. 
			
				
		Obscurity is not security
			cryptography should be designed in such a way that all the details of an algorithm—except for the private key—should be knowable without sacrificing its security.
				A cryptographic system should not be considered secure if it requires secrecy around how it works.
			
	Non-repudiation and hashing
		Non-repudiation
			the concept that the authenticity of information can't be denied
			
			
		hashing
			applying an algorithm that produces a code that can't be decrypted
			sha256sum docker.yaml
		
		
	The evolution of hash functions
		Five functions make up the SHA family of algorithms:
			SHA-1 - not approved by NIST
			SHA-224
			SHA-256
			SHA-384 
			SHA-512
		
		Rainbow tables
			file of pre-generated hash values and their associated plaintext. They’re like dictionaries of weak passwords.
			Attackers capable of obtaining an organization’s password database can use a rainbow table to compare them against all possible values
		Salting
			A salt is a random string of characters that's added to data before it's hashed. 
			
		8  sha256sum file1.txt >> file1hash
		9  sha256sum file2.txt >> file2hash
		10  cat file1hash 
		11  cat file2hash 
		12  cmp file1hash file2hash
		
		
Authentication, authorization, and accounting

	Access controls and authentication systems
		
		Access Controls
			security controls that manage access, authorization, and accountability of informaiton
			
		AAA framework
			Authentication
			Authorization
			Accounting
			
		Authentication
			access controls that serve a basic purpose: 
				who are you?
				
			Knowledge:
				something the user knows
				
			Ownership:
				something the user possesses
				
			Characteristic:
				something the user is
					
	
	The rise of SSO and MFA
	
		SSO
			single sign on 
			combine multipe sign ins into one
			SSO improves the user experience by eliminating the number of usernames and passwords people have to remember.
			Companies can lower costs by streamlining how they manage connected services.
			SSO improves overall security by reducing the number of access points attackers can target.
			This is done through the exchange of encrypted access tokens between the identity provider and the service provider.
					
				 LDAP
					Lightweight Directory Access Protocol, is mostly used to transmit information on-premises
				 SAML
					which stands for Security Assertion Markup Language, is mostly used to transmit information off-premises, like in the cloud
							
		MFA
			a security measure which requires a user to verify their identity in two or more ways to access a system or network
	
	
	The mechanisms of authorization
		
		Authorization
				Separation of duties
					not given levels of authorization that allows users to misuse the system or network
				
				Basic Auth
					HTTP uses this
					technology used to establish a user's request to access a server
				
				OAuth
					open standard authorization protocol that shares designated access between applications
					uses api tokens
					API token
						small block of encrypted code that contains information about a user
	
	Why we audit user activity
		
		Access logs
			failed login attempts and uncover hackers that have gained access
			first procedure in investigating a security event
		
		Session
			sequence of network HTTP basic auth requests and responses associated with the same user
		
		Session ID
			when a user visits a website first they are given this
			a unique token that identifies a user and their device while accessing the system
			
		Session Cookie
			token that websites use to validate a session and determine how long that session should last
			prevent hackers
			
		Session hijacking
			An event when attackers obtain a legitimate user's session ID or cookie
			
		
	
	Identity and Access Management (IAM)
		collection of processes and technologies that helps organizations manage digital identities in their environment.
		Both AAA and IAM systems are designed to authenticate users, determine their access privileges, and track their activities within a system.

		User provisioning
			process of creating and maintaining a user's digital identity
			
		Granting authorization
			There are three common frameworks that organizations use to handle this step of IAM:
				Mandatory access control (MAC)
				Discretionary access control (DAC)
				Role-based access control (RBAC)
				
		Mandatory Access Control (MAC)
			MAC is the strictest of the three frameworks. Authorization in this model is based on a strict need-to-know basis.
			Access to information must be granted manually by a central authority or system administrator.
			MAC is also known as non-discretionary control because access isn’t given at the discretion of the data owner.
			
		Discretionary Access Control (DAC)
			DAC is typically applied when a data owner decides appropriate levels of access.
			One example of DAC is when the owner of a Google Drive folder shares editor, viewer, or commentor access with someone else.
		
		Role-Based Access Control (RBAC)
			RBAC is used when authorization is determined by a user's role within an organization.
			For example, a user in the marketing department may have access to user analytics but not network administration.
			
		Access control technologies
			Users often experience authentication and authorization as a single, seamless experience.
			In large part, that’s due to access control technologies that are configured to work together. 
			Instead, many organizations opt to license third-party solutions that offer a suite of tools that enable them to quickly secure their information systems.
			Keep in mind, security is about more than combining a bunch of tools.
			It’s always important to configure these technologies so they can help to provide a secure environment.
		