Manage Security Risks Week 1

CISSPs eight Security Domains
	Security Posture
		ability to manage its defense of critical assets and react to change
	Security and Risk Management
		defining security goals and objectives
		Business Continuity 
			ability to maintain daily business operations
		
	Asset Security
		
	Security Architecture and Engineering
		Shared responsibility
			all individuals within an organization take an active role mitigating security risks
	Communication and Network Security
		managing and securing networks
	Identity and Access Management
		(IAM)
		focussed on access and authorization
		Identification
		Authentication
			verification process (password/pin)
		Authorization
		Accountability
	Security Assessment and Testing
		Focused on conduction security control testing, collecting and analyzing data to find vulnerabilities
	Security Operations
		Focused on conducting investigations and implementing preventative measures
	Software Development Security
		focussed on using secure software development
	
Security Frameworks and Controls
	Managing Risks
		Acceptance: Accepting a risk to avoid disrupting business continuity
		Avoidance: Creating a plan to avoid the risk altogether
		Transference: Transferring risk to a third party to manage
		Mitigation: Lessening the impact of a known risk
	Threats
		Advanced persistent threats (APTs): A threat actor maintains unauthorized access to a system for an extended period of time.
	RMF (Risk Management Framework)
		Prepare
			Monitor for risks, find controls
		Categorize
			Develop risk management process and tasks
		Select
			choose, customize, and capture
			keeping a playbook up to date
			managing documentation
		Implement
			execute security plans
		Assess
		Authorize
			being accountable for the security and privacy risks that may exist
			generating reports
		Monitor
			be aware of how systems are operating
	Vulnerabilities
		A vulnerability is a weakness that can be exploited by a threat.
		Therefore, organizations need to regularly inspect for vulnerabilities within their systems. Some vulnerabilities include:
		ProxyLogon: 
			A pre-authenticated vulnerability that affects the Microsoft Exchange server.
			This means a threat actor can complete a user authentication process to deploy malicious code from a remote location.
		ZeroLogon:
			A vulnerability in Microsoft’s Netlogon authentication protocol.
			An authentication protocol is a way to verify a person's identity.
			Netlogon is a service that ensures a user’s identity before allowing access to a website's location.
		Log4Shell:
			Allows attackers to run Java code on someone else’s computer or leak sensitive information.
			It does this by enabling a remote attacker to take control of devices connected to the internet and run malicious code.
		PetitPotam:
			Affects Windows New Technology Local Area Network (LAN) Manager (NTLM).
			It is a theft technique that allows a LAN-based attacker to initiate an authentication request.
		Security logging and monitoring failures:
			Insufficient logging and monitoring capabilities that result in attackers exploiting vulnerabilities without the organization knowing it
		Server-side request forgery:
			Allows attackers to manipulate a server-side application into accessing and updating backend resources.
			It can also allow threat actors to steal data.

Security Audits
	
Basic Security Tools
	
Protect Assets and Data