Manage Security Risks Week 3
	Logs and SIEM Tools
		Log Sources
			Firewall Logs
				attempted or established connections for incoming traffic
				outbound requests from within the network
			Network Logs
				record of all computers and devices that enter and leave the network
				connections between devices on the network
			Server Logs
				record of events related to services, such as websites, emails, or file shares
				actions such as login, password, and username requests
		SIEM tool
			collects and analyzes logs
			realtime visibility
			automated alerts
			stores log data
	SIEM Dashboards
		charts graphs or tables
		Security orchestration, automation, and response (SOAR) is a collection of applications, tools, and workflows that uses automation to respond to security events.
			Essentially, this means that handling common security-related incidents with the use of SIEM tools is expected to become a more streamlined process requiring less manual intervention. 
	
	Different Types of SIEM Tools
		Self-Hosted
			install operate and maintain with own infrastructure
		Cloud-Hosted
			ideal for organizations that dont want to invest in their own infrastructure
		Hybrid
			both
		Splunk Enterprise
			self hosted tool used to retain, analyze, and search an organizationslog data
		Splunk Cloud
			cloud hosted splunk
		Chronicle
			cloud-native tool designed to retain analyze and search data
			Chronicle allows you to collect and analyze log data according to: 
			A specific asset
			A domain name
			A user
			An IP address
		Suricata
			Open Information Security Foundation (OISF)
			open-source network analysis and threat detection software. 
			Network analysis and threat detection software is used to inspect network traffic to identify suspicious behavior and generate network data logs.
			The detection software finds activity across users, computers, or Internet Protocol (IP) addresses to help uncover potential threats, risks, or vulnerabilities. 
	Security posture dashboard
		The security posture dashboard is designed for security operations centers (SOCs).
		It displays the last 24 hours of an organization’s notable security-related events and trends and allows security professionals to determine if security infrastructure and policies are performing as designed.
	Executive Summary Dashboard
		analyzes and monitors the overall health of the organization over time.
		This helps security teams improve security measures that reduce risk. 
	Incident review dashboard
		 helps analysts identify risk for each risk object (e.g., a specific user, a computer, or an IP address).
		 It shows changes in risk-related activity or behavior, such as a user logging in outside of normal working hours or unusually high network traffic from a specific computer.
	Enterprise insights dashboard
		It identifies suspicious domain names in logs, known as indicators of compromise (IOCs).
		Each result is labeled with a confidence score to indicate the likelihood of a threat.
		It also provides a severity level that indicates the significance of each threat to the organization.
		A security analyst might use this dashboard to monitor login or data access attempts related to a critical asset—like an application or system—from unusual locations or devices.
	Data ingestion and health dashboard
		shows the number of event logs, log sources, and success rates of data being processed into Chronicle
	IOC matches dashboard
		Security professionals use this dashboard to observe domain names, IP addresses, and device IOCs over time in order to identify trends. 
	Rule detections dashboard
		provides statistics related to incidents with the highest occurrences, severities, and detections over time.
	User sign in overview dashboard
		provides information about user access behavior across the organization. 
